---
title: Why Streaming TV Will Mean Better Content
author: Mike Dixson
type: post
date: 2013-05-18T17:53:00+00:00
draft: false
url: ""
categories:
  - Modern Living
  - Technology
slug: streaming-tv-content
preview: /images/streaming_tv.webp
image: /images/streaming_tv_thumbnail.webp
description: '"Why Streaming TV Will Mean Better Content: Explore how streaming is revolutionizing television, giving viewers the freedom to choose what and when they watch. Say goodbye to mediocre shows forced upon you."'
tags:
  - broadcast media
  - content revolution
  - on-demand
  - streaming services
  - streaming TV
  - television industry
  - viewer choice
---
With broadcast media figure dropping (<http://bgr.com/2013/05/17/google-fiber-broadcast-television-impact-analysis/>) faster than ever I can&#8217;t help but think what a good thing this is.  
For two reason. Firstly the obvious being able to choose what you want and when you want it.  
But more so the broadcast media is a now antiquated way in which programme makers convince some executive somewhere that their programme is great and then its pushed down your TV whether you like it or not.  
Unless you stream, or pirate movies and TV shows you are likely just to end up watching the least shit thing on TV.  
Programme makers aren&#8217;t making shows they think you will like, they have to male shows that they think they can sell to an executive and convince them that you will like it.  
There are of course exceptions and fortunately there are some executives out there who seek out the absolute best for their channel or slot. But largely this is a failing of broadcast media.  
With streaming TV and movies be coming the norm we&#8217;ll be in a position to choose to watch what we, actively, want to watch, not the least shit thing on.  
TV show makers will have to, in this initial transitionary phase, have to sell to executives. But the figures of who is watching and for who long will be a lot more reliable. Hopefully these will reflect what people actually want to watch. 

As time goes on I can imagine that TV show makers might be able to form independent creative groups that allow for more diverse TV shows and maybe even selling direct to the consumer.  
At which point all of out weird little quirks can be fulfilled by a new range of more creative and interesting programmes.